----- PAGE 85 -----
NOTES
Note 2 Financial risk management comprehensive income and equity in the event of currency Local currency SEKm
exchange rate changes. The exchange rate difference, which is Currency 2024 2024
recognized in other comprehensive income, is attributable to EUR 71.6 822.6
BICO’s operations are exposed to various types of financial changes in the USD/SEK exchange rate (for US subsidiaries USD 175.3 1,928.1
risks that may affect the Company’s performance and cash and related surplus values) and the EUR/SEK exchange rate
flows. This is primarily as a result of exchange rate fluctu- (for European subsidiaries and associated surplus values). The Group’s policy is not to hedge against transaction and
ations, but also credit and counterparty risks, liquidity and translation fluctuations in exchange rates.
refinancing risk and, to a certain extent, interest rate risks. Due to the acquisition of American subsidiaries, intra-Group
receivables in USD arose in the Parent Company. Due to a
Liquidity and refinancing risk
The Group’s financial risks are managed in accordance planned settlement in the near future, it was determined that Financing risk refers to the risk that costs will be higher and
with the Group’s Finance Policy. The CEO is responsible for these do not form part of the net investment in the foreign funding opportunities will be limited when loans are to be
conducting the business in accordance with the instructions operation. This means that the currency exchange differences renewed, and that payment obligations might not be met
from the Board of Directors and is joined by the CFO on the on the receivables affect the Group's total net finance income due to insufficient liquidity or difficulties in obtaining financ-
reporting on compliance with policies and potential risks. The and are therefore not recognized in other comprehensive in- ing. The Company shall be an attractive borrower and plan
CFO is responsible for the Company’s financial reporting and come. Nevertheless, the effect on net finance income is offset sufficiently in advance so that it can receive financing on good
for complying with the Board of Directors’ authorization to by a corresponding effect in other comprehensive income terms.
the CEO and senior executives in relation to risk and report- from the translated equity of the subsidiary, which means
ing. The CFO participates in Audit Committee meetings and is that total equity is not affected to any material extent. The Company currently has mainly external financing in the
responsible for following up and reporting on the Company’s form of convertible bonds that mature in March 2026. For
internal control and financial risks to the Audit Committee A 10 percent increase in EUR and USD, respectively, over the further information on the convertible bonds, see Note 20.
and the Board of Directors. The Group’s financial risks are financial year would have resulted in the following transaction
monitored and reported by the CFO to the Board of Directors, exposure effect on the Group’s operating profit, mainly be- In other respects, the Company has financed its growth
the Audit Committee and the CEO. cause the operating profit in the foreign subsidiaries fluctu- through equity raised from the Company’s shareholders.
ates with the currency, but also because the amortization and
Foreign currency risk impairment of surplus values denominated in EUR and USD Interest rate risk
Exchange rate fluctuations affect the Group’s performance would have increased in the accounting currency (SEK). Interest rate risk is the risk that interest rate changes will af-
and equity in various ways, either as a transaction exposure fect the Group’s earnings and cash flow (cash flow risks). The
or as a translation exposure. Transaction exposures comprise Currency 2025 2024 vast majority of the Company’s external financing currently
commercial flows in foreign currencies. For the Group, these consists of convertible bonds with a nominal value of SEK
mainly arise because European companies purchase most of EUR -28.3 -29.2 1,500m that mature in 2026, whereof a nominal value of SEK
their products in EUR but partly invoice in USD, mainly to Asia USD -86.5 28.8 1,008m is externally outstanding on the balance sheet date.
and North America. Also, Swedish companies report costs in The bonds have a fixed interest rate of 2.875 percent, which
SEK, while the Group has limited invoicing in SEK. There are corresponds to SEK 29.0m a year in coupon interest based on
also transactions where American companies invoice cus- The net translation exposure (in thousands) for the Group is the current outstanding balance. In addition, finance costs
tomers or have costs in EUR. As a consequence, the reported divided into the currencies below. A 10 percent change in each includes amortizations of fees and equity component amount
numbers in SEK are exposed to currency fluctuations, mainly closing rate would have affected the respective SEK amount according to the effective interest method. Consequently,
between EUR, USD and SEK. by 10 percent, which would have entailed a corresponding the interest expense is mostly predictable at present, and the
change in other comprehensive income and equity. interest rate risk linked to loans is considered to be low.
The amortization and impairment of acquired surplus values The summary below shows the effect that a change in market
from foreign subsidiaries is also affected by a change in Local currency SEKm interest rates of one percentage point would have had on the
exchange rates as the values are calculated in the foreign Currency 2025 2025 consolidated income statement and equity.
currency and translated into SEK. EUR 57.0 616.4
When the earnings and net assets of subsidiaries are trans- USD 48.5 446.0
lated, a translation exposure affects the Group’s other
BICO GROUP AB (PUBL) ANNUAL REPORT / 2025 85

----- PAGE 86 -----
Maturity structure for financial liabilities, including future interest payments (non-discounted amounts)
Group, Dec 31, 2025 <1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years >4 years Total
Interest-bearing liabilities 1,025.7 0.2 - - - 1,025.9
Trade payables 69.6 - - 0.1 - 69.7
Lease liabilities 66.8 50.2 41.1 36.2 153.1 347.5
Other liabilities 17.6 0.4 2.6 3.0 0.6 24.2
Group, Dec 31, 2024 <1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years >4 years Total
Interest-bearing liabilities 46.7 1,394.6 0.5 0.2 - 1,441.9
Trade payables 77.8 - - 0.1 - 77.9
Lease liabilities 87.3 83.0 65.5 57.4 197.3 490.5
Other liabilities 19.7 5.1 4.4 0.2 2.2 31.6
Parent Company, Dec 31, 2025 <1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years >4 years Total
Interest-bearing liabilities 1,022.5 - - - - 1,022.5
Trade payables 6.9 - - - - 6.9
Other liabilities 8.0 - - - - 8.0
Parent Company, Dec 31, 2024 <1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years >4 years Total
Interest-bearing liabilities 39.7 1,390.5 - - - 1,430.3
Trade payables 9.6 - - - - 9.6
Other liabilities 8.3 - - - - 8.3
Change, % 2025 2024
Market interest
rate (+/-) 1 0.0 0.0
Credit and counterparty risk
Credit risk is the risk of losses caused by a counterparty’s
inability to meet its contractual obligations. The risk for
BICO is mainly linked to trade receivables and contract assets.
To control the risk, the Company continuously evaluates out-
standing receivables and historical credit losses.
The Company requests advance payments from new custom-
ers if there are doubts about the counterparty’s ability to pay.
For BICO, there is no significant concentration of credit risk
related to any individual customer, counterparty or geograph-
ical region. The Company has a broad customer portfolio
with the majority of sales coming from a large number of
customers. In individual fiscal years, larger projects within Lab
Automation could cause increased customer concentration.
The Company also works with distributors in certain regions,
which has some effect on the concentration risk, mainly in
relation to the Asian market.
A customer is deemed to be in default if it has payment diffi-
culties or if a receivable is more than 90 days overdue. The rea-
soning for this is that several customers routinely pay late. At
that point, there is a notable increase in expected credit losses
according to BICO’s model. Credit risk is handled in the ac-
counts by recognizing a loss allowance based on how long the
receivable has been overdue and on an individual review of the
customer based on previous payment patterns and external
factors. The loss allowance is measured at an amount equal
to the expected credit losses for the entire remaining payment
term, which means that a loss allowance is also recognized for
receivables that are not yet due for payment. Improved collec-
tion procedures and a lower outstanding gross balance have
contributed to the decreased loss allowance (both in nominal
and relative amounts) compared with prior year.
Receivables are only written off when the counterparty is
declared bankrupt or if changes to the nominal value of the
receivable are agreed. See also Note 16 for further informa-
tion on the Group’s trade receivables. The work on collecting
overdue receivables is continuous.
NOTES
86 BICO GROUP AB (PUBL) ANNUAL REPORT / 2025
NOTES

----- PAGE 87 -----
The Company also has credit and counterparty risk for cash 
and cash equivalents. To control the risk, the Company has 
consistently invested cash in well-established counterparties 
with a low determined risk of default. Total liquidity amounts 
to SEK 1,282m (946), where of 84.6m (348.4) is restricted and 
the main counterpart is SEB. No expected credit loss has been 
booked.
Capital risk management
The Group’s capital structure must be kept at a level that 
ensures the opportunity to continue operations and create 
returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, 
while maintaining an optimal structure for the reduction of 
capital costs. 
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may, 
subject to shareholder approval, when appropriate, vary 
the dividends to shareholders, reduce the share capital for 
payment to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to 
reduce the debt/equity ratio. The Group analyzes the debt/
equity ratio continuously. Net debt includes interest-bearing 
financial liabilities. The Group’s capital consists of assets less 
interest-bearing liabilities. The Group is not subject to any 
external capital requirements (covenants).
From time to time, the Group has more liquid assets than 
required to conduct the Company’s operations. On such 
occasions, the excess liquidity can be invested in fixed income 
funds and bonds, in accordance with the Group’s Finance 
Policy. It can also be used to repurchase outstanding debt. 
The purpose is to manage the Group’s capital at the lowest 
risk possible for when the Company needs the capital, e.g., 
for acquisitions or other investments. Any investments should 
preserve value rather than generate significant capital gains. 
The Company’s liquidity must be available at short notice to 
support continued growth.
Note 3  Critical accounting estimates  
and judgments 
      
Preparation of the financial statements in accordance with 
IFRS requires the Board of Directors and Group management 
to make assessments, estimates and assumptions that affect 
the application of the accounting principles and the figures 
reported for assets, liabilities, income and expenses. 
 
Estimates and assumptions are based on historic experiences 
and a number of other factors that are considered reasonable 
under the prevailing circumstances. The result of these esti-
mates and assumptions is then used to assess the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities which are not otherwise 
apparent from other sources. The actual outcome may devi-
ate from these estimates and judgments. Assessments and 
assumptions are reviewed regularly depending on their nature, 
but at least annually. Changes in estimates are reported in 
the period in which they are made if they only affect that 
period, or in the period in which they are made and in future 
periods, if the change affects both the period concerned and 
future periods. Assessments made by Group management 
that have a significant impact on the financial statements 
and estimates that may result in significant adjustments in 
future financial statements are described below. 
Assessment of cash-generating units and impairment testing of 
goodwill and other intangible assets 
Impairment testing requires the identification of the Group’s 
smallest cash-generating units, which requires estimates to be 
made. Per December 31, 2025, the Group was deemed to com-
prise 7 cash-generating units, which reflects the Group’s revenue 
streams and historical acquisitions. Testing for impairment has 
been carried out at this level. A change in this estimate could have 
significant consequences on the Group’s earnings in future periods. 
See Note 13 for further information.
In the calculation of recoverable amounts of cash-generating 
units when goodwill and other intangible assets were tested 
for impairment, several assumptions were made about future 
conditions and estimates of parameters. See Note 13 for further 
information. 
Loss allowance for trade receivables 
BICO recognizes loss allowances for trade receivables based on 
the provisions on expected credit losses in IFRS 9. 
NOTES
In relation to this, accounting estimates are made as to whether 
trade receivables will be recoverable at their full value, and at what 
level any loss allowance should be recognized. BICO’s cash-gen-
erating units have a varying history related to bad debt losses. 
Estimates are therefore required to assess the risk of future credit 
losses. The principles are described in more detail in Notes 2 and 16. 
Deferred tax 
Deferred tax assets attributable to tax losses were capitalized in 
the Group to the extent that they can be used against future taxa-
ble profits in the near future. To determine this, the Group manage-
ment has produced forecasts for the companies that include tax 
losses, and assumed that companies who have been loss-making 
from a tax perspective in recent years do not fulfil the criteria to 
capitalize deferred taxes of tax loss carry forwards. Assumptions 
and estimates used in the calculation generally require significant 
estimates of forecasted cash flows and growth per legal entity. A 
change in any of these factors could lead to changes in the reported 
amounts. See Note 12 for further information.
Leases
The recognition of leases in accordance with IFRS 16 requires a 
certain degree of judgment, primarily regarding the lease term. 
The Group defines lease term as the non-cancellable period of a 
lease, plus any periods covered by options to extend if it is reason-
ably certain that such options will be exercised.
The Group has several leases that include options to extend or 
terminate. At the beginning of the lease term, the Group deter-
mines whether or not it is reasonably certain that the option to 
extend or terminate the lease will be exercised. This assessment 
considers all relevant factors that create an economic incentive 
to extend or terminate the lease. After the start date, the Group 
reviews the lease term if a significant event occurs or if there is a 
change in circumstances within the Group’s control that affects 
its ability to exercise or not exercise the option to extend or 
terminate the lease (e.g., the expense of major improvements or 
adaptations to the leased asset). 
The Group generally includes the extension period in the lease 
term for leases of premises with non-cancellable periods of less 
than three years. Within this period, it is usually considered to be 
reasonably certain that the Group will exercise its option to renew 
the leases. The extension periods for leases with longer non-can-
cellable periods are not included in the lease term as it is not 
reasonably certain that they will be exercised. 
See Note 25 for further information on the Group’s leases.  
BICO GROUP AB (PUBL) ANNUAL REPORT / 2025
87
NOTES


----- PAGE 88 -----
Capitalization of development expenditures 
Recognition of capitalized development expenses requires 
assessments to determine whether expenses can be capitalized 
during the course of a project. Factors affecting the assessment 
include the project’s development stage and its future earnings 
capacity. To ensure that this is managed correctly, the Group 
continuously works with project documentation and follow-up, 
monitors expenditure incurred in relation to the project budget 
and forecasts future earnings capacity. 
A changed estimate of the projects’ earnings capacity could have 
significant impact on the Group’s earnings in future periods. See 
also Note 13 for further information on the Group’s capitalized 
development expenses.   
Convertible bonds 
On March 19, 2021, the Group issued senior, unsecured converti-
ble bonds with a total nominal value of SEK 1,500m. Convertible 
bonds are a hybrid instrument that mainly comprises two parts: a 
liability portion and an equity portion. To determine the portion of 
the convertible loan that should be classified as equity, the implicit 
market rate is used, i.e., the interest rate at which the Company 
would likely have been able to borrow without the embedded op-
tion to convert into shares. This interest rate is used to discount the 
liability, and the difference between the discounted value and the 
issued convertible debt is the portion of the loan that is classified 
as equity. In 2021, the Company determined that this interest rate 
was 5.5 percent. A change in this estimate could have had material 
effects on the consolidated income statement and consolidated 
balance sheet, both over the year and in future periods.
See also Note 20 for information on the convertible bonds.
Revenue recognition over time
BICO applies revenue recognition over time for some larger Lab 
Automation projects. This means that, based on projected final 
project results, income is recognized successively during the course 
of the project according to its degree of completion. In order to 
do this, project revenue and project expenses must be possible to 
be reliably determined. This in turn requires that the Group has 
efficient, coordinated systems for calculation, forecasting and 
revenue/expense reporting.
The method also requires consistent assessment (forecasts) of the 
final outcome of the project, including analysis of deviations from 
earlier assessments. However, actual future project outcomes may 
deviate, either positively or negatively, from this assessment.
Lab Automation 
Lab Automation consists of Biosero. The business area pro-
vides the proprietary and hardware-agnostic Green Button 
Go Suite software for connected and smart workflows.Work-
ing on a project basis, Biosero provides automation technolo-
gy integration, consulting and engineering services to design, 
build, and install automated laboratory systems. 
Group 
Group consists of costs that could not be allocated to a 
specific segment, such as Group-wide administration and 
shareholder costs.
Note 4  Segments
      
ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES
The operating segments’ earnings include directly attrib-
utable items and items that can reasonably and reliably be 
attributed to the segments. The recognized items in the 
operating segments’ earnings are measured in accordance 
with the earnings monitored by the Company’s chief operat-
ing decision-maker. Assets and liabilities are not measured by 
segment by the Company’s chief operating decision-maker.
Segments 
The Group consists of two reporting segments:
Life Science Solutions and Lab Automation.
The Group’s operations are divided into operating segments 
based on which parts of the operations the company’s highest 
executive decision-maker, the Group’s CEO, follows up. The 
business is organized in such a way that the CEO monitors the 
sales and earnings generated by the Group’s segments. Since 
the CEO monitors the results of operations and decides on the 
distribution of resources based on the description of segments 
below, these constitute the Group’s operating segments.
The Group’s segments are identified on the basis that differ-
ent market offerings have been merged into one segment in 
cases where they have similar financial properties, products, 
production processes, customers and distribution methods. 
Follow-up of the Group’s segments is mainly on sales and 
EBITDA, which is why these performance measures are pre-
sented in tables to the right. 
Life Science Solutions 
Life Science Solutions consists of CYTENA, DISPENDIX, 
Discover Echo, QInstruments, SCIENION, Cellenion, 
CELLINK and Advanced BioMatrix. The segment supplies 
advanced lab instrumentation, consumables and applications 
in cell culture, cell imaging, cell sorting, and sample preparation 
for different analytics, such as genomics as well as 3D bioprint-
ers and bioinks with a wide range of technologies for differ-
ent demanding applications, resolutions, and volume/speed 
requirements. In addition the segment also offers instruments 
and solutions for scalable manufacturing of diagnostics, as 
well as consumables to enable single-cell proteomics and other 
workflows and contract manufacturing services.
BICO GROUP AB (PUBL) ANNUAL REPORT / 2025
88
NOTES


----- PAGE 113 -----
Note 24 Financial assets and liabilities
ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES
Financial instruments that are recognized in the balance
sheet include the following assets and liabilities: long-term
investments, non-current receivables, trade receivables, deriv-
atives, intra-Group receivables and liabilities, cash and cash
equivalents, interest-bearing liabilities, contingent considera-
tions and trade payables. Trade receivable and debt instru-
ments are recognized when they are issued. Other financial
assets and financial liabilities are reported when the Group
becomes a party in the instrument’s contractual terms and
conditions. On initial recognition, a financial asset or financial
liability is measured at fair value.
Assets and liabilities measured at amortized cost
After initial recognition, non-current receivables, trade receiv-
ables, intra-Group receivables and liabilities, cash and cash
equivalents, interest-bearing liabilities and trade payable are
measured at amortized cost including any transaction costs.
Interest income and expenses and exchange rate gains and
losses are recognized in profit or loss. Gains or losses arising
out of derecognition are recognized directly in profit or loss.
Financial assets measured at amortized cost are subject
to ongoing impairment testing and allowances for expect-
ed credit losses. See also Note 16 for a description of the
management of expected credit losses related to the Group’s
trade receivables.
Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair
value through profit or loss
Long-term investments are measured at fair value through
profit or loss after initial recognition. This means that net
gains and losses, including all interest and dividend income,
are recognized in profit or loss. The Group does not apply
hedge accounting. The Group’s long-term investments consist
of strategic investments in unlisted companies. The invest-
ments are measured at fair value in accordance with IFRS 13,
level 3 (inputs not based on observable market data).
When long-term investments are acquired, the cost is deemed
to correspond to the fair value, as the transaction is carried
out between two independent parties. Thereafter, finan-
cial changes to the acquisition target, such as valuations in
connection with new share issues, earnings and sales trends,
are considered to constitute factors that affect the fair value.
The fair value of long-term investments is remeasured every
reporting period, and any difference from the previously
reported amount is recognized in net finance income in the
period in which the change arises.
Derecognition from the statement of financial position
A financial asset is derecognized from the balance sheet
when the rights in the agreement are realized, expire or the
Company loses control of it. The same applies to parts of a
financial asset. A financial liability is derecognized from the
balance sheet when the obligation in the agreement is met or
otherwise terminated. The same applies to parts of a finan-
cial liability.
Acquisitions and disposals of financial assets are recognized
on the date when the Company undertakes to acquire or
divest the asset, except when the Company acquires or sells
quoted securities, in which case settlement date accounting is
applied.
Fair values in level 3
The table below presents the reconciliation between the open-
ing and closing balances for financial instruments measured in
level 3 according to IFRS 13.
Group
Long-term
investments
Fair value, January 1, 2025 5.3
Acquisitions -
Total gains and losses recognized in operating
profit/loss for the year -
Total gains and losses recognized in net finance
income for the year 2.7
Fair value, Dec 31, 2025 8.0
NOTES
113 BICO GROUP AB (PUBL) ANNUAL REPORT / 2025

----- PAGE 114 -----
Group Dec 31, 2025 Dec 31, 2024
IFRS 13 fair
value level
Financial assets
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Long-term investments 8.0 5.3 3
Financial assets measured at amortized cost
Non-current receivables 34.6 43.0
Trade receivables 376.7 450.7
Cash and cash equivalents 1,282.2 946.3
Total financial assets 1,701.4 1,445.3
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
Liabilities to credit institutions -2.7 -8.6
Convertible bonds -1,001.5 -1,332.3
Other interest-bearing liabilities -0.7 -3.0
Lease liabilities -281.9 -419.7
Trade payables -69.6 -77.9
Total financial liabilities -1,356.4 -1,841.4
Parent Company Dec 31, 2025 Dec 31, 2024
IFRS 13 fair
value level
Financial assets
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
Long-term investments 8.0 5.3 3
Financial assets at amortized cost
Non-current receivables 3.1 1.8
Trade receivables 0.3 7.6
Receivables from Group companies 1,658.7 2,309.4
Cash and cash equivalents 1,227.9 738.9
Total financial assets 2,898.0 3,063.1
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost
Liabilities to credit institutions - -
Convertible bonds -1,001.5 -1,332.3
Other interest-bearing liabilities - -
Liabilities to Group companies -235.3 -280.8
Trade payables -6.9 -9.6
Total financial liabilities -1,243.8 -1,622.7
NOTES
Valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs
Instruments Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs Relationship of unobservable inputs to fair value
Long-term
investments
If a transaction occurred recently, the valuation model is based on the most recent trans-
action for the specific company. If there were significant changes in conditions between
the transaction date and the reporting date and BICO is of the view that these could
have a significant impact on the fair value, the carrying amount is adjusted to reflect
such changes.
• Multiple on equity
• Valuation at the most recent issue of new
shares
The estimated fair value would increase (decrease) if:
• The multiple on equity was higher (lower)
• The valuation at the most recent new issue of shares
was higher (lower)
Financial assets or liabilities were offset to the extent that
they had the same counterparties and maturity structure,
which affects certain intra-Group receivables and liabilities in
the Parent Company.
The carrying amounts above for financial assets and liabilities
correspond in all essentials to the fair values, except with re-
gard to convertible bonds. These are traded on the Frankfurt
Stock Exchange, and per December 31, 2025, the market price
was approximately 97 percent of the nominal amount.
BICO GROUP AB (PUBL) ANNUAL REPORT / 2025 114

----- PAGE 115 -----
Note 25  Leases
      
ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES	
	
	
 
At the inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether 
the contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, 
a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use  
of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for 
consideration.
At the beginning of the lease, or when reviewing a lease that 
contains multiple components – lease and non-lease compo-
nents – the Group allocates the consideration in the contract 
to each lease component on the basis of the relative stand-
alone price of the lease component. However, for leases of 
buildings and land where the Group is the lessee, the Group 
has decided not to differentiate between non-lease compo-
nents, so both lease and non-lease components that are paid 
with fixed amounts are treated as a single lease component.
	
	
Leases where the Group is the lessee
The Group recognizes a right-of-use asset and a lease liability 
at the commencement date of the lease. The right-of- use as-
set is initially measured at cost, which includes the initial value 
of the lease liability plus lease payments paid at or before the 
commencement date plus any initial direct costs. The right-
of-use asset is then depreciated on a straight-line basis from 
the commencement date to the end of the asset’s useful life 
or the end of the lease term, whichever is earlier, which for the 
Group is usually the end of the lease term.
The lease liability, which is divided into non-current and current 
portions, is initially measured at the present value of the 
remaining lease payments for the estimated lease term. The 
lease term consists of the non-cancellable period together with 
any additional periods in the lease if, at the commencement 
date, it is deemed reasonably certain that they will be utilized. 
The lease payments are usually discounted by using the 
Group’s incremental borrowing rate, which, in addition to the 
Group’s credit risk, reflects each lease’s lease term, currency, 
and the quality of the underlying asset as intended securi-
ty. Where the interest rate implicit in the lease can readily 
be determined, that rate is used instead. The lease liability 
comprises the present value of fixed payments and variable 
lease payments that depend on an index or a rate over the 
estimated lease term. The value of the liability is increased 
by the interest expense for each period and decreased by the 
lease payments. Interest expense is calculated as the value of 
the liability multiplied by the discount rate.
The lease liability for the Group’s premises with index-linked 
rent is calculated based on the rent that applies at the end 
of each reporting period. At this point, the liability is adjust-
ed and a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying 
amount of the right-of-use asset. 
In a corresponding manner, the values of the liability and the 
asset are adjusted if the lease term is revised. This occurs when 
the last date for terminating the lease in the previously deter-
mined lease term for the lease of premises has passed, or upon 
the occurrence of significant events or a significant change in 
circumstances in a way that is within the Group’s control and 
affects the prevailing determination of the lease term.
The Group presents right-of-use assets and lease liabilities as 
separate items in the balance sheet.
No right-of-use asset or lease liability is recognized for leases 
with a lease term of 12 months or less or for leases with an 
underlying asset of low value (less than SEK 50 thousand). 
Lease payments for such leases are expensed on a straight-
line basis over the lease term.
Lessee
The Group’s property, plant and equipment consist of both 
owned and leased assets. 
Leased assets mainly consist of real estate and premises and 
to a lesser extent of vehicles and office equipment. No leases 
contain covenants or other restrictions in addition to the 
security in the leased assets.	
	
 
 
Real estate leases
The Group leases buildings for offices, production and stor-
age. The leases generally have a term from one to ten years. 
Some leases contain an option to extend the lease for an 
additional period. 
Sometimes the leases contain lease payments based on 
changes in local price indices. Some leases also require the 
Group to pay fees relating to real estate taxes and other 
expenses that are imposed on the lessee.	
	
	
	
	
	
	
Options to extend or terminate
Certain leases contain options to extend or terminate the 
lease, which the Group may or may not exercise up to one year 
before the end of the non-cancellable period. When possible, 
the Group attempts to include such options in new leases, as 
they contribute to operational flexibility. The options may only 
be exercised by the Group and not by the lessor. 
It is determined at the commencement date of the lease 
whether it is reasonably certain that an option to extend will 
be exercised. The Group reassesses whether it is reasonably 
certain that an option to extend will be exercised upon the 
occurrence of either a significant event or a significant change 
in circumstances that is within the Group’s control.
The Group’s leases usually have non-cancellable periods of one 
to ten years, with options for the Group to extend for further 
periods. The leases contain no final end date. For leases with 
a non-cancellable period of 3–10 years, it has been determined 
that it is not reasonably certain that additional periods will be 
utilized. For leases with a non-cancellable period of less than 
three years, it has been determined in most cases that it is 
reasonably certain that additional period(s) will be utilized, 
which usually results in lease terms of three to five years. 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
NOTES
BICO GROUP AB (PUBL) ANNUAL REPORT / 2025
115


